##LAB:Getting Started with Google Cloud Marketplace

In this lab, you use Cloud Marketplace to quickly and easily deploy a LAMP stack on a Compute Engine instance. 
The Bitnami LAMP Stack provides a complete web development environment for Linux that can be launched in one click.

##Objectives
In this lab, you will learn how to launch a solution using Cloud Marketplace.

##Steps
1.Sign in to the GCP Console.

 1.Ensure that the Compute Engine API is initialized before you can continue.This should be already configured for you in this lab.
 To confirm the same enter the following command:

     gcloud services list --enabled

 2.Other necessary API's include the Linux,Apache,PHP,MySQL which should already be configured for you in this lab to successfully carry out the deployment.
 You can confirm that the APIs are enabled and if not consequently install as per the example below:
 For instance,you could install Apache 2’s PHP module using this command:

     sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-php php

 Execute the following command to download and update the package lists.

     sudo apt-get update

2.Use Cloud Marketplace to deploy a LAMP stack
 1.Set your environmental variables using this command:

   gcloud config set compute/region us-central1

   gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-a

  2.Create the virtual machine instance

    gcloud compute instances create lampstack-1 --machine-type “f1-micro” --boot-disk-device-name “lampstack-vm-tmpl-boot-disk” --boot-disk-type “pd-standard” --boot-disk-size “10Gb” --subnet "default” 

  3.Add firewall rule for the tags created above

    gcloud compute firewall-rules create default-allow-http-https --action=ALLOW --direction=INGRESS --rules=tcp:80 --rules=tcp:443 --target-tags=http --target-tags=https 

You should have now succesfully deployed a LAMP stack(Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP).
   
3.Connect to the vm instance using SSH with this command:

      gcloud compute ssh lampstack-1 --zone us-central1a

4.In the just-created SSH window, to change the current working directory to /opt/bitnami, execute the following command:

        cd /opt/bitnami

5.To copy the phpinfo.php script from the installation directory to a publicly accessible location under the web server document root, execute the following command:

       sudo sh –c ‘echo “<?php phpinfo() ;  ?>” > apache2/htdocs/phpinfo.php’

  The phpinfo.php script displays your PHP configuration. It is often used to verify a new PHP installation.

6.To close the SSH window, execute the following command:

                exit

7.Open a new browser tab.

Generate the URL link to the SITE_ADDRESS of the instance using the following command:

           gcloud app browse
  
8.Type the following URL, and replace SITE_ADDRESS with the URL in the site address that you have got from the above step.

          http://SITE_ADDRESS/phpinfo.php

A summary of the PHP configuration of your server is displayed.

9.Close the phpinfo tab.

CONGRATULATIONS
You have deployed a LAMP stack to a Compute Engine Instance.

